
Automatic Garden Waterer

Background to the proposal:
    
    I like having a nice garden but I am lazy and forgetful. Instead of having to remember
    to check the weather forecast and decide whether I need to water the garden in the 
    morning or evening I would like something to do it for me. Using one of the many weather
    web services it should be possible to decide whether the garden should be watered or not.
    
    My proposal is for an application that runs on a server that monitors a web service
    for weather forecasts. If no rain is forecast then the application will send a signal 
    to a Raspberry Pi in the garden that will use the GPIO pins on the Raspberry Pi to 
    open a water valve to water the garden. The system could check the web service again 
    in the evening to see if it did rain or not and take appropriate action. The time that 
    the valve is open would depend on the forecasted temperature for the day. The system 
    would be distributed across a central server machine inside and one or more Raspberry 
    Pis that actually open and close the valves. 
    
    The system should also provide a web interface to display if the garden was watered 
    and for how long. A user should be able to log in to the web interface and initiate 
    watering. 


Existing Skills:

    I have studied several programming modules at the OU. M362 covered web services, 
    distributed systems and creating dynamic web pages. M363 covered project planning, 
    methodologies and testing.
    
    I am a professional developer with experience building large distributed systems 
    and web interfaces.
    
    However I do not have any experience with wiring. This will be the main difficulty 
    to overcome.
    
Next:
    
    I need to look into whether a water valve exists that can be controlled from the 
    Raspberry Pi.
    I need to understand how to use the Raspberry Pi GPIO pins to control external devices.
    I need to look at which weather web services provide the data I would require - or 
    do I need to look at building in other sensors like a moisture sensor.
    I would also need to look at how the server could communicate with the external Pis. 


    